It's time for another conceptual
aside when it comes to JavaScript.
This one is single threaded,
synchronous execution.
So, we have two rather large
looking terms, so guess what?
Big word alert.
First of all, single threaded.
It sounds pretty complicated but
it's easy to understand.
That means that one command
is being executed at a time.
So any program is full of many commands.
Many commands within the code.
Single threaded execution means
you're only doing one at a time.
Now, when we're dealing with browsers,
understand that JavaScript isn't
the only thing happening in the browser.
So, when we say JavaScript is
single threaded, It may not be
under the hood of the browser, but
from our perspective as programmers,
JavaScript behaves in
a single threaded manner.
All right, the next one.
And once again, big word alert.
Synchronous, this is very
similar to single threaded.
Synchronous meaning, in the purposes
of programming, one at a time.
Not two at a time or three at a time.
But one line of code being executed for
synchronous execution at a time and,
for our purposes, in order.
So the code is executed one line at
a time in the order that it appears.
And that's it.
Single threaded synchronous execution,
meaning that in JavaScript,
only one thing is happening at a time.
Now I know what you're probably thinking,
but hey,
I've heard of asynchronous requests
in JavaScript, especially on the web.
AJAX, the A stands for asynchronous.
What are you talking about?
Well, we'll see that in just a little bit,
but for now, just trust me.
JavaScript is single threaded,
synchronous execution in its behavior.